So taps on the map should be registered,
an important piece of information is whether we are actually in selecting mode or not.
So on the map screen, we want to make sure that isSelecting is set to true because if it's set to false,
I don't want to do anything upon taps on the map because we're only viewing the app in read-only mode
so to say. Now here on the Google map which we're building, we can add onTap listener,
that's very convenient
and here we can reach out to widget.isSelecting
and if this is true, then I'll want to
register some method here, otherwise
I'll set this to null so nothing will happen up on a tap if we're not in the selecting mode. Now
here however, I want to call a method which we can simply add to the state object,
it will return nothing and I'll name it select place, the name is up to you or select location maybe and
we'll get a position there
which is of type latlng, so this class provided by the Google Maps Flutter plugin which we also used
here to create such a coordinate pair.
So we get this provided by Google upon such a tap, so by the Google Maps plugin, it gives us this position
of the tap automatically, the coordinates of the tap
so to say and therefore all we have to do in here is I want to store that picked location. So I'll add
a new property to my map screen state, picked location and that can be anything, we can use a map here
with a key-value pair or actually use that add
latlng class provided by the Google Maps Flutter package because a pair of latitude and longitude coordinates
sounds about right. So here in select location,
I just want to call set state because of course, I want to rebuild this,
I want to add a marker after all and that marker should be visible,
so we need to re-render or rebuild that widget
and in there, I'll set picked location equal to the position I get here as an argument.
So now we can connect select location with onTap down there in case we are in selecting mode
and now we need to add some markers and that's also done with another argument passed to the Google map constructor
and keep in mind that this re-runs when we call set state.
So now here, I can add my markers and here, I want to check whether we have a picked location, if that
is equal to null,
so if it's not set, if we have no location, then I'll use null here,
so then I'll not set any markers, otherwise markers needs to be a set and you can see that if you hover
over that.
Now we haven't worked with sets thus far. A set is created like a map with curly braces,
the difference to a map is that you don't have key-value pairs but you only have values,
so it's a bit like a list where you also only have values.
Now what's the special thing about a set then? The special thing about a set is that each value in there
is guaranteed to be unique and if you try to add a value to a set which is already part of it, it will
simply not be added. So here, the Flutter team decided to use a set instead of a list for the markers,
for us it doesn't make a huge difference,
we simply add a bunch of markers in there because it should be a set full of markers and markers
of course also are classes or objects based on a class provided by the Google Maps package.
So marker is a new object we create here by calling its constructor
and now each marker needs to have a unique ID which you create with the marker ID class which is provided
by the Google Maps package and there, you pass any string you want to mark your ID.
Now in case you want to know how I know this, you'll find an official example in that repository I showed
you earlier, that Google Maps Flutter example, here in the example folder in the lib folder, you'll find
a bunch of examples of what you can do with the Google Maps plugin and there, you also learn how to
work with markers and so on.
If you want to dive deeper into that, this is also a great place to find more examples and play around
with different things.
So here, we add a marker with a certain ID,
of course a marker does not just need an ID but also a position
and that again is a latlng pair and that's exactly what we stored in picked location, so we can simply
use that.
So now with that, we're adding a marker in this set here
and since this rebuilds because we call set state here, we should see that marker
after we tapped the screen. Time to save this and go back, open the map here and click somewhere and you
should see that as you click, a marker is added in the spot where you clicked.
So this is working, we can now select places on the map,
let's now add a checkmark to also save that and return that back to the add place screen. For that
here in the appBar of the map screen, we can of course add a new entry,
so a new action and let's add our actions list
therefore and in that actions list, I want to add a new icon button and that icon button however should
only be there if we're in selecting mode,
so if we are able to select a new place. So I'll add an if statement here, using this inside of a list if feature
which Dart offers and there I'll check widget.isSelecting, if that is true,
this will be added to the list,
otherwise it will not be added, so otherwise here, we'll simply have an empty list.
So then I want to add an icon button, the icon here will be an icon widget where I want to use the check
widget which is this checkmark
and besides an icon, I also want to add onPressed which should do something and that something is of course
that it should pop off that screen.
So here, I want to use navigator of context pop
and now return some data back to the page we used to open this screen here,
so back to the add place screen.
The data that should be returned back is the picked location because in the location input which actually
is the place where we open the map screen, where we use navigator push, there I am waiting for the selected
location.
The type is unknown to Dart right now,
I'll change this soon
and this is in the end where I then want to use this picked location, so this latlng object we're getting
here.
So we're passing this back by using pop here and we'll only show this button here if we are selecting.
However selecting alone isn't enough,
it's nice to show this button if we are selecting but this method should only be connected if we already
picked a place because if we haven't picked a place, then clicking the checkmark button doesn't make
much sense.
So I want to disable this button if we haven't picked a place yet, so I'll check picked location here
and if that is equal to null, then I'll set onPressed to null which means it will be disabled,
the button will be there but disabled and only otherwise if picked location is not null,
I'll attach this function and therefore the button will be enabled and we'll be able to press it and
then pop this screen off and return this location.
So now in the location input, we know that here, we'll actually get a latlng object and therefore we need
to add an import to the Google Maps Flutter package and the google_maps_flutter.dart file
and with that import added in the location_input.dart file, we can then work with that latlng data
here and here, you should add the type annotation in front of this because Dart is not able to infer
it because you could be returning anything here.
An alternative to adding it here by the way is that you add it on push here with angled brackets because
this will then also tell Dart that push in the end, once that page you're loading is popped,
will give you back a latlng object.
So now we're exchanging that,
we're not doing anything with the data
if we get it but at least we're exchanging it,
so here I should be able to print selectedLocation.latitude for example and hopefully, we should
now see some output
if we select the place on the map and we then close it. So if I close it like this, we see no output here
but if I then reopen this map and let's say I click here,
confirm this, now this button is enabled, confirm this and
yes
here it is,
there is the output. So that is working, with that we can choose a location by locating the user or by
picking it on the map.
The next step is to also derive an address, a human readable address and then store all of that both
in memory as well as in our database, later load it from there and then work on the place detail screen
to also show a preview of the map there and so on.